We've seen that there are different types of
wallets and that wallet addresses depend on private keys.
Private keys generate the public keys and
wallet addresses that allow us to interact with the blockchain.
In this section, we'll explore the purpose of a private key,
what makes them secure, and then explore different ways to
generate private keys for your wallet. So let's get started.
A private key is just a number,
a 256 bit random number between one and two to the 256.
It can be represented in a number of different formats,
all of which correspond to that same 256 bit number.
You may see this number presented in a number of
different formats and don't be confused, it still that same number.
Now, a common way to represent a 256 bit private key is in hexadecimal format,
256 bits in hexadecimal is 32 bytes,
using 64 characters from the range is
zero to nine and A through F. Other common formats you
may come across are the wallet import format or
WIF for short or the WIF-Compressed format.
Both of these are ways of encoding a private key so
as to make it easier to make different copies for different use cases.
But remember, these all represent the same number.
At this point, you might be wondering how is it
possible that every private key is completely unique?
Remember, a private key can be any number between one and two to the 256,
so the number is huge and it gives us an incredible amount of possibilities.
Let's take a minute to put that into perspective.
There are about two to the 63 or seven quintillion grains of sand on planet Earth.
Not even close to the two to the 256 possible private keys.
So, there seemingly infinite number of private keys available.
How do we get one? Well, the exact method you
choose doesn't matter as long as it's random and not repeatable.
It's actually as simple as grabbing a coin,
a pencil, and a piece of paper.
If you flip the coin 256 times and write down one for heads and zero for tails,
the resulting number is a binary form of
a random private key and you can use it in your Bitcoin wallet.
If you want to go about it programmatically,
you'll need to find a source of entropy.
The definition of entropy is a lack of order or
predictability is the degree of disorder or randomness in a system.
In other words, we'd like to find a random number generator.
However, it can't just be any random number generator,
it needs to be very, very secure.
So, it is essentially impossible to trace how we generated
the number because if we could trace how it's generated,
a hacker could easily generate our number and gain access to our private keys.
We'll need to create a cryptographically secure random number generator.
If you're tempted to create a random number generator on your own, don't do it.
Creating a cryptographically secure random number generator is by no means an easy task.
Even cryptographic experts have a hard time creating ones that are unhackable.
So, do not try this by yourself.
Instead, use an industry establish properly peer
reviewed and vetted cryptographically secure random number generator.
Most operating systems have a source of entropy
or a library with a cryptographically secure number generator.
For example, Python has the random library and Java has the secure random class.
Alternatively, there also a Bitcoin address generating websites.
They use the underlying operating systems
random number generators to produce a 256 bit random number.
In the next video, I'll demo how to use
such a website to help us generate private keys and wallet addresses.